Welcome to Customer Analytics,
I'm Professor Raghu Iyengar.
I'm a professor of marketing in
the Wharton marketing department,
I've been here for about ten years or so.
And during this time I've
taught marketing research and
other customer analytics related courses.
So, today we talk about
descriptive analytics,
I hope your as excited as I am to
talk about descriptive analytics.
So, these days a lot of collection and
analysis of big data is outsourced to
third party companies who
specialized these things.
And throughout this module I'll introduce
you to companies that do this kind of work
in different industry segments.
Such as scanner data at grocery stores,
or metric for
measuring audience engagement
by media companies.
But even if you're not involved
in these industries, or
you want to engage in descriptive
data analytics on a smaller scale,
it's very important to know
about these companies.
The way in which they're
collecting this data, and
the kinds of the questions that
the data is trying to explore.
Why is this?
This is because it's a way of
thinking about these kinds of issues.
Thus, by learning about these companies,
you will take away actionable techniques
in thinking and forming questions, about
descriptive data, techniques that you can
employ in whatever descriptive data
environment you are attempting to analyze.
So what is descriptive analytics?
Descriptive analytics can be
defined in a variety of ways.
So one is that descriptive analytics is
a way of linking the market to the firm
through decisions.
Another way of thinking
about descriptive analytics,
it's the information that's needed
to make actionable decisions.
And yet another way is, it's principle for
systematically collecting and
interpreting data.
What's the common thread here?
The common thread is getting good data.
But what I also want to talk about is
that it's the synergy between data and
decisions that managers have to
make that makes for good analytics.
So what are the different kinds
of decisions that managers
might have to make?
One set of decisions might be
purely exploratory in nature.
So think about a brand manager,
they're looking at their brand sales and
suddenly they start dropping.
Question is why are they dropping?
Is it because customer
preferences have changed?
Is it because customers like competitors?
There could be a variety
of things going on.
So in that sense, at this stage
is purely exploratory in nature,
we're trying to understand why things are
not working out the way we expect them to.
Another set of questions can
be purely descriptive, for
example again going back
to the brand manager.
I want to know what's my
customer share of wallet?
How much are they spending with me?
How much are they spending
with my competitors?
Who are our customers?
What's our segmentation like?
So these kinds of questions require hard
data in terms of understanding how much
customers are, for example, buying our
products or other competitor's products.
Yet another set of questions
can be purely causal.
And the idea here is for example, if I'm
changing the landing page on my website,
how will it change consumer behavior?
Would a change, would it in increase
it in terms of click through rate,
would it bring it down, and so on.
So these questions, the one on the right
most extreme, the causal questions,
require systematic data collection and
careful thought in terms
of how to collect data.
So what we see here is going
from left to the right,
the type of data that
needs to be collected,
the type of conditions that the data needs
to be collected under also keep changing.
So as we go on in this module today,
we'll talk about different kinds of
questions that manager need to answer, and
what type of data is best suited
to answer those questions.
So let's begin with the exploratory
type of data collection.
So exploratory type of data collection
is typically done to develop
initial hunches or insights.
Again recall the example
that we started out with,
the brand manager thinking about
why the sales are dropping.
It could be a variety
of different reasons.
And usually this type of data collection
is a first step and very important step,
to get a broad understanding of what
the underlying problems could be.
And it provides broad guidelines on what
you should look for more rigorously.
What's a typical technique that
comes to mind when you start
thinking about exploratory
data collection?
It's focus groups.
Focus groups have been there for
a long time.
What's a focus group?
Basically, you have about 8
to 10 customers in a room,
usually you have moderator who designs
the overall flow of the focus group.
And you want these people to come and
talk about the brand,
their sentiments about the brand.
Perhaps feed off each other,
in other words you can observe dynamics,
it's reasonably unstructured,
it's free flow conversation.
And what are you trying
to do as a brand manager?
Get insights into what might be
some pinpoints for consumers.
Now, in this day and
age of data analytics and big data,
focus groups have morphed,
in some sense, to many different ways.
Market research online communities, or
internet communities,
are basically focus groups on steroids.
You can think about variety of different
companies offering this service, for
instance, Focal Point.
What Focal Point does is basically
rather than looking at 10 to 20 people,
you start thinking about 100 to 200,
or sometimes 500 people in a group.
And you're monitoring them not for
one time, but
over a period of six months to a year.
What's the idea here?
The idea here is to build
relationship with your consumers.
Over time these 100 to 200 people, start
building relationships with each other.
They become more and more comfortable
talking about their real feelings and
real insights.
Focal Point of course is not the only
company doing it, there are many,
many other companies.
For instance, C Space is one of them and
many other competitors as well, okay?
There are many advantages
of internet communities,
one is that it enhances
engagement with customers.
So these customers are together, talking
to each other, talking to the brand for
about six months to a year.
So clearly this closed concentration
in terms of talking to each other,
communication with the brand,
it really enhances their engagement.
Second, shorter deadlines are possible.
Typically with focus group there are
logistical issues in terms of trying to
get these people in the room,
get a moderator, and so on.
Because you are looking
at these customers for
about six months to a year, you can
actually have much shorter deadline.
There are aha moments that come out,
the most famous example is
Kraft's 100 calorie pack.
What did they do?
They basically had a community,
they had worked with C Space.
They had a community that started looking
at what do people want in snacks?
What was the insight?
It's not that people wanted
to stop eating snacks,
what they really wanted was
snacks with low calories.
Nabisco's 100 calorie pack
has been an amazing success.
There are caveats as well,
what's the big caveat?
ROI can be very hard to determine.
Why?
Because as you start engaging with an
internet community, early on it might be
quite difficult to forecast,
what kind of insights will come out.
For Kraft, this was great, but it will not
be the case for every possible example.
So, thinking carefully about when
you might want internet communities,
thinking carefully about is it worth
the investment of six months to a year?
Very important to determine as you
start going into the idea of collecting
data from customers,
over an extended period of time.